

=== Page 1 ===

   
 
 
WT/GC/W/773 
 
13 May 2019 
(19-3287) Page: 1/8 
General Council 
  
Original: English 
 
  
CHINA'S PROPOSAL ON WTO REFORM1 
COMMUNICATION FROM CHINA 
The following communication, dated 13 May 2019, is being circulated at the request of the delegation 
of China. 
 
_______________ 
 
 
The world's economic landscape is undergoing profound changes. With the rise of unilateralism and 
protectionism, economic globalization is encountering twists and turns. The authority and efficacy of 
the multilateral trading system are facing severe challenges. Against this backdrop, China supports 
efforts to make necessary reform to the WTO, in order to help it tackle the current crisis, respond 
to the needs of our times, safeguard the multilateral trading system and promote the building of an 
open world economy. To this end, China released its position paper on WTO reform in November 
20182, outlining the basic principles and specific propositions of China on this issue. This proposal is 
prepared on the basis of the above-mentioned position paper.  
 
1  INTRODUCTION 
1.1  The Important Role of the WTO in Global Economic Governance 
1.1.  International trade is an important engine for the growth of global economy. The multilateral 
trading system, with the WTO at its centre, is the cornerstone of economic globalization and f ree 
trade. As an important pillar of global economic governance, the WTO has, since its inception, made 
remarkable contributions to expanding international trade, promoting full employment, stimulating 
economic growth and raising standards of living. 
1.2.  In the past 24 years, the membership of the WTO has kept increasing with the total trade 
volume of its Members account ing for 98% of world 's total , which fully demonstrates the 
representativeness of the multilateral trading system  and its appeal to the mem bership. World 
merchandise exports have increased from US$ 4.3 trillion in 1994 to US$ 17.7 trillion in 20173, lifting 
hundreds of millions of people out of poverty around the world and significantly rais ing the living 
standards of citizens of relevant countries and regions. 
1.3.  In the fields of trade liberalization and facilitation, the WTO has made a number of important 
achievements. The conclusion and full implementation of the Agreement on Trade Facilitation  are 
expected to reduce the costs of global trade by 14% and would generate US$ 1 trillion in additional 
global trade each year.4 The full elimination of agricultural export subsidies is conducive to levelling 
the playing field for agricultural trade. The elimination of tariffs on IT products has increase d the 
                                                
1 This proposal is submitted with a view to facilitating the discussions on WTO reform. China stands ready 
to engage in discussions with other WTO Members. The views expressed in this proposal are without prejudice 
to the position and proposals of China in the future on the specific issues covered herein. 
2 For the full text of China's Position Paper on WTO Reform, please visit the official website of the Ministry 
of Commerce of the P. R. China at http://sms.mofcom.gov.cn/article/cbw/2018/20181202817611.shtml. 
3 For figures of 1994 and 2017, please see International Trade Statistics 1995 and World Trade Review 
2018 respectively. 
4 See http://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/tradfa_e/tradfa_e.htm. 

=== Page 2 ===

WT/GC/W/773 
 
- 2 - 
 
  
export of the products covered from US$ 549 billion in 1996 to US$ 1.7 trillion in 2015. All these 
have contributed tremendously to the recovery and growth of world economy.  
1.4.  In the field of dispute settlement, 574 dispute cases have been filed with the WTO dispute 
settlement mechanism by the end of 2018. 5 The mechanism has been playing an important role in 
resolving trade disputes, preserving the balance of the rights and obligations of the Members under 
the WTO agreements and providing security and predictability to the multilateral trading system.  
1.5.  In the field of trade policy review and monitoring, more than 430 trade policy reviews (TPRs) 
have been conducted, covering 155 of the 164 WTO Members. TPRs have significantly increased the 
transparency of Members' trade policies and deepened their understanding of each other 's trade 
regime.  
1.2  The Unprecedented Existential Crisis of the WTO 
1.6.  The recent trend of rising unilateralist and protectionist practices have dealt blows to 
multilateralism and the system of free trade. The enduring blockage of the appointment process of 
Appellate Body members risks paralyzing the Appellate Body by the end of 2019, which will 
significantly affect the effective operation of the dispute settlement mechanism. The abuse of 
national security exception, unilateral measures inconsistent with the WTO rules, as well as misuse 
or abuse of existing trade remedy measures have severely damaged the rules-based, free and open 
international trade order. Moreover, such practices have adversely affected the interests of the WTO 
Members, especially the developing Members, and undermined the authority and efficacy of the 
WTO. As a consequence, the Organization is facing an unprecedented existential crisis.  
1.7.  The WTO itself is not impeccable. The objectives set out in the Marrakesh Agreement 
Establishing the World Trade Organization  have not yet been fully attained. As for its function of 
negotiations, progress has been slow on issues such as agriculture, development and rules, although 
it has been seventeen years since the launch of the Doha Development Round. Such new issues as 
electronic commerce and investment facilitation that reflect the reality of international economy and 
trade in the 21st century have not been timely addressed. By co ntrast, remarkable progress and 
achievements have been made in the field of trade liberalization and facilitation through bilateral 
and regional trade agreements. As for WTO's function of trade policy review and monitoring, 
transparency of trade policies of its Members awaits to be enhanced and the operational efficiency 
of the WTO stands in need of improvement. 
1.8.  It is against this backdrop that some WTO Members have recognized the urgency and necessity 
of WTO reform. The G20 Summit held in Buenos Aires in 2018 expressed support for necessary 
reform of the WTO so as to help the Organization to better play its role. 
1.3  China's Overall Position on WTO Reform 
1.9.  China has been an active participant, staunch supporter and major  contributor in the 
multilateral trading system. It has comprehensively participated in all areas of work of the WTO, 
proactively promoted liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment, respected and fully 
implemented dispute settlement rulings , and deeply engaged in trade policy reviews . China has 
spared no efforts towards the integration of developing Members into the multilateral trading system. 
The white paper entitled  China and the World Trade Organization  published by the Chinese 
government in June 2018 provides a full account of China's position on the WTO and the multilateral 
trading system as well as China's positive contributions to the development of world economy and 
trade. 
1.10.  China supports necessary reform of the WTO so as to overcome its existential crisis, enhance 
its authority and efficacy, and increase its relevance in terms of global economic governance. To this 
end, China has put forward in November 2018 the following three basic principles on WTO reform. 
First, the reform shall pre serve such core values of the multilateral trading system  as non-
discrimination and openness, with a view to creating a stable and predictable environment for 
international trade. Second, the reform shall safeguard the development interests of developing 
Members. In particular, it is imperative to eliminate development deficit in the existing WTO rules , 
                                                
5 See https://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/dispu_e/dispu_status_e.htm. 

=== Page 3 ===

WT/GC/W/773 
 
- 3 - 
 
  
resolve the difficulties encountered by developing Members in their integration into economic 
globalization and help attain the Sustainable Development Goals of United Nations 2030 Agenda. 
Third, the reform shall follow the practice of decision -making by consensus. The specific issues 
subject to reform, work agenda and final results should be agreed upon after extensive 
consultations, on the basis of mutual respect, broad participation and dialogues on an equal footing.  
1.11.  China believes that the multilateral process is the  most desirable  channel to promote 
liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment  on a global scale . At the same time, 
opportunities and challenges have been brought about by the new wave of science and technology 
revolution and transformational power of digital economy. In this context, we may consider an open, 
transparent, inclusive, pragmatic and flexible approach to explore a new set of rules on international 
trade and investment, responding to the developments of the times and the needs of business 
communities. In this process, the interests and capacity constraints of developing Members should 
be taken into full account. 
2  AREAS FOR ACTION 
2.1.  China believes the necessary reform of the WTO should cover the following four areas for 
concrete actions: First, resolving the crucial and urgent issues threatening the existence of the WTO; 
Second, increasing WTO's relevance in global economic governance; Third, improving the 
operational efficiency of the WTO; and Fourth, enhancing the inclusiveness of the multilateral trading 
system. 
2.1  RESOLVING THE CRUCIAL AND URGENT ISSUES THREATENING THE EXISTENCE OF 
THE WTO 
2.1.1  Breaking the Impasse of the Appointment Process of Appellate Body members  
2.2.  Issue and Problem. As a pillar of the WTO, the dispute settlement mechanism plays a crucial 
role in providing security and predictability to the multilateral trading system. If the blockage of the 
appointment process of Appellate Body members is to continue , there will be only one Appellate 
Body member left in office by December 2019. Such a situation would severely threaten the proper 
functioning of the dispute settlement mechanism  and therefore pose an imminent and institutional 
risk to the Organization. 
2.3.  Objective and Task. The appointment process of Appellate Body members should be initiated 
without delay to fill the vacancies so as to ensure the effective functioning of the dispute settlement 
mechanism. 
2.4.  Action and Proposal. China, together with some other WTO Members, submitted joint 
proposals6 on the Appellate Body reform , urging Members to actively participate in the informal 
process under the auspices of the General Council and engage in substantive text-based discussions. 
These efforts are made to  address such concerns of certain Members as the transitional rules for 
outgoing Appellate Body members, 90 -day timeframe for appellate proceedin gs, the status of 
municipal law, findings unnecessary for dispute resolution and the issue of precedent. The proposals 
also emphasized the need to  preserve and reinforce the independence and impartiality of the 
Appellate Body and to initiate the appointment process of the Appellate Body members without any 
further delay.  
2.1.2  Tightening Disciplines to Curb the Abuse of National Security Exception 
2.5.  Issue and Problem. Certain Member has imposed unwarranted tariffs on steel and aluminium 
products and threatened to raise tariffs on auto and auto parts  to protect its domestic industries,  
using national security as a pretext. It has also improperly extended the coverage of export control 
measures and administered such measures in a non -transparent or unjust manner. These actions 
have disturbed the international trade order and international market, impeded normal technological 
exchanges and applications, impaired the interests of Members concerned and undermine d the 
relevant rules of the WTO. 
                                                
6 See WT/GC/W/752/Rev.2, WT/GC/W/753/Rev.1. 

=== Page 4 ===

WT/GC/W/773 
 
- 4 - 
 
  
2.6.  Objective and Task.  The WTO Members should act in good faith and exercise restraint in 
invoking provisions on national security exceptions. Such provisions need to be further clarified and 
regulated within the WTO framework. 
2.7.  Action and Proposal. It is necessary to enhance the notifi cation requirements on measures 
such as imposing import tariffs  on the ground of national security exceptions , and carry out 
multilateral review s on such measures. Meanwhile, WTO Members whose interests have been 
affected should be entitled to take prompt and effective remedies, so as to maintain the balance of 
their rights and obligations under the WTO. 
2.1.3  Tightening Disciplines to Curb Unilateral Measures Inconsistent with WTO Rules 
2.8.  Issue and Problem. Certain Member has taken unilateralist measures of raising trade barriers 
and imposing import tariffs in an arbitrary way and without authorization from the WTO. In addition, 
it has imposed economic sanctions on other countries and extended 'secondary sanctions ' to 
overseas business activities of third-country nationals or companies, without authorization from the 
United Nations or legal basis under international treaties . Such actions have severely violated 
international commitments and the WTO rules. Although such unilateralist measures are manifestly 
WTO-inconsistent and have caused serious consequences, the current WTO rules offer no timely or 
effective discipline and remedy. 
2.9.  Objective and Task. It is necessary to effectively curb such unilateral ist measures, 
reinvigorate the efficiency and authority of the WTO, safeguard the rules-based multilateral trading 
system and protect the legitimate rights of the WTO Members. 
2.10.  Action and Proposal. Such unilateralist measures should be constrained through, inter alia, 
enhancing the multilateral review mechanism, authorizing the Members affected to take prompt and 
effective provisional remedies in cases of urgency and accelerating relevant dispute settlement 
proceedings. 
2.2  INCREASING WTO'S RELEVANCE IN GLOBAL ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE 
2.2.1  Rectifying the Inequity in Rules on Agriculture 
2.11.  Issue and Problem. Significant inequity, imbalance and unfairness persist in current rules 
on agriculture, in particular the provisions regarding the Aggregate Measurement of Support (AMS). 
A number of developed Members enjoy high levels of AMS and therefore are able to provide much 
higher levels of support than their de minimis level with respect to a number of specific products, 
seriously distorting agricultural production and  trade. By contrast, the majority of developing 
Members ha ve no  entitlement to AMS . Furthermore, they could not implement domestic public 
stockholding programmes necessary for food security purposes. 
2.12.   Objective and Task. It is necessary to rectify the inequity in rules on agriculture so as to 
promote agricultural trade and create a level playing field  for developing Members. It is also 
necessary to enhance their abilities to safeguard food security and livelihood security  so that they 
could benefit more from the multilateral trading system.  
2.13.  Action and Proposal. The AMS entitlements of developed Members should be eliminated in 
gradual instalments. In the meanwhile,  Members should reach an agreement on the permanent 
solution for public stockholding for food security purposes. 
2.2.2  Improving Trade Remedies Rules 
2.14.  Issue and Problem. At present, there exist  a number of gaps and ambiguities in existing 
multilateral trade remedy rules. Misuse and abusive application of trade remedy measures abound. 
Discriminatory practices based on country-of-origin and types of enterprises have been on the rise. 
The special situations  of developing Members and SMEs as well as the public interests are not 
accorded adequate or appropriate consideration. As a result, trade remedy rules have failed to exert 
their due functions or respond to the needs of the development of the multilateral trading system to 
the detriment of the normal course of international trade. 

=== Page 5 ===

WT/GC/W/773 
 
- 5 - 
 
  
2.15.  Objective and Task.  It is necessary to further clarify and improve relevant  WTO rules on 
subsidies, countervailing measures and anti -dumping measures. We should curb the misuse and 
abuse of trade remedies, eliminate discriminatory rules and practices, and give consideration to the 
special situations of developing Members and SMEs as well as public interests. In this way, the spirit 
and principles of relevant agreements of the WTO could be more faithfully honoured and free trade 
and levelling playing field better safeguarded. Such improvements of rules could answer to the needs 
of the world and the WTO Members for sustainable development. 
2.16.  Action and Proposal. First, the provisions on non-actionable subsidies should be reinstated 
and their coverage expanded. Second, efforts need to be made to clarify and improve relevant rules 
on and relating to price comparison in anti-dumping proceedings, improve the rules on sunset review 
and explore the possibility of harmonizing the rules on anti-circumvention. Third, the subsidies and 
countervailing rules relating to subsidy identification, calculation of benefits conferred and 
application of facts avai lable should be clarified and improved  to mitigate abusive applications of 
countervailing measures. Fourth, transparency and due process of anti-dumping and countervailing 
investigations should be improved and the assessment of their effectiveness and comp liance be 
reinforced. Fifth, more consideration should be given to the special situations of developing Members 
and SMEs as well as public interests. 
2.2.3  Accelerating Negotiations on Fisheries Subsidies 
2.17.  Issue and Problem. The negotiations on fisheries subsidies are among the areas where the 
WTO could help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals  of the United Nations 2030 Agenda. 
Swift conclusion of the negotiations is important. 
2.18.  Objective and Task.  It is necessary to conclude the negotiations on fisheries sub sidies in 
accordance with the decision adopted by the 11th WTO Ministerial Conference. The agreement to be 
reached should provide comprehensive and effective disciplines to prohibit certain forms of fisheries 
subsidies contributing to overcapacity and over fishing and to eliminate subsidies contributing to 
illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. 
2.19.  Action and Proposal. China supports the 2019 Work Programme drafted by the Chairperson 
of the Negotiating Group on Rules and will continue to actively and constructively engage in 
consultations of various forms. The negotiations should be conducted in a pragmatic and consensus-
seeking manner. Transparency and inclusiveness should be ensured in these consultations. 
2.2.4  Advancing Joint Initiative on Trade-related Aspects of E-commerce in an Open and 
Inclusive Manner 
2.20.  Issue and Problem. E-commerce has created unprecedented opportunities for international 
trade and economic growth. Meanwhile, the digital divide still needs to be bridged. Issues such as 
cyber security  and data security have gained in prominence. M embers, particularly developing 
Members, have their own challenges in developing E-commerce. And they have diversified interests 
and concerns with respect to international rules on E-commerce. However, in the past two decades, 
the WTO did not launch the rule-making process on trade-related aspects of E-commerce. 
2.21.  Objective and Task. Business communities have made strong call for E-commerce rules. It 
is important for Members to work on pro -multilateral rules.  Such efforts  will be conducive to  
bolstering inclusive trade, revitalizing the WTO negotiating function and enhancing the relevance of 
the multilateral trading system. These rules, once agreed upon, would create new opportunities of 
international trade  for Members, particularly developing Members, as well as SMEs, women and 
youth. With these rules in place, E-commerce will generate more benefits for businesses, consumers 
and global economy. 
2.22.  Action and Proposal. China and 75 other WTO Members issued a joint statement on E -
commerce, confirming their intention to commence negotiations on trade -related aspects of E -
commerce on the basis of existing WTO agreements a nd framework. China proposes the following 
actions: First, conduct the rule -making process in an open, transparent, inclusive and flexible 
manner, and welcome participation of all Members. Second, uphold the development dimension and 
focus on cross-border trade in goods enabled by the Internet, as well as on such related services as 
payment and logistics services ; and establish rules on cross-border E-commerce facilitation, 

=== Page 6 ===

WT/GC/W/773 
 
- 6 - 
 
  
electronic signature, electronic authentication, and online consumer protection etc. Third, formulate 
provisions on development  cooperation so as to strengthen technical assistance and capacity 
building for developing Members, particularly least-developed country Members. Fourth, respect 
Members' right to regulate and accommodate specific concerns of developing Members. Fifth, strike 
the balance among technological advances, business development and such legitimate public policy 
objectives as Internet sovereignty, data security and privacy protection, so as to  reach a balanced 
and pragmatic outcome acceptable to all through equal consultations. Sixth, continue in-depth 
discussions in relevant WTO bodies  pursuant to the Work Programme on Electronic Commerce  in 
1998. 
2.2.5  Promoting Discussions on New Issues 
2.23.  Issue and Problem. Trade and investment are closely interlinked in today's world underlined 
by the in -depth development of  global value chains. Investment facilitation measures play an 
increasingly important role in improving business environment, attracting inbound  cross-border 
investment and promoting trade and sustainable development. However, cross -border investment 
by businesses is still hindered by opaque policies and government inefficiencies. Micro, small and 
medium sized enterprises (MSMEs) make significant contributions to job creation and technology 
innovation. However, they are confronted with challenges in connecting to global value chains, such 
as limited access to information and high costs of trade financing. 
2.24.  Objective and Task. It is crucial to meet the development needs of business communities 
and to promote inclusive trade, so as to ensure the multilateral trading system keep pace with the 
times. 
2.25.  Action and Proposal. Continued efforts should be made to bring the discussions on relevant 
issues into a new phase while adhering to the principles of openness, transparency and inclusiveness. 
On investment facilitation, a dedicated mechanism should be established to enable Members to carry 
out efficient policy coordination and explore the establishment of mu ltilateral framework . This 
process should focus on such elements as improving transparency, streamlining administrative 
procedures and enhancing international cooperation, while paying due respect to Members' right to 
regulate. With the process centring on development, developing Members will benefit from technical 
assistance and capacity building. On MSMEs, those enterprises could better participate in and benefit 
more from international trade with improved access to information, easier corporate financing and 
reduced trade costs.  
2.3  IMPROVING THE OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY OF THE WTO 
2.3.1  Improving the Compliance of Notification Obligation 
2.26.  Issue and Problem. At present, Members' overall fulfilment of notification obligations still 
falls short of the requirements u nder various WTO agreements. Due to their  limited capacity and 
other constraints, some Members could not submit the notifications on time. Meanwhile, the quality 
of counter-notifications submitted by some Members still needs further improvement. 
2.27.  Objective and Task. It is imperative to enhance the transparency of Members' trade policies. 
Greater transparency will help create an open, stable, predictable, equitable and transparent 
international trading environment, and raise Members' confidence in the multilateral trading system.  
2.28.  Action and Proposal. First, developed Members should lead by example  in submitting 
comprehensive, timely and accurate notifications. Second, Members should improve the quality of 
their counter-notifications. Third, Members should increase exchange of their experiences on 
notifications. Fourth, the WTO Secretariat  needs to  update Technical Cooperation Handbook on 
Notifications7 as soon as possible  and intensify training in this regard. Fifth, developing Members 
should also endeavour to improve their compliance of notification obligations. Technical assistance 
and capacity building should be provided  to developing Members, in particular LDCs, if they are 
unable to fulfil notification obligations on time.  
                                                
7 See WT/TC/NOTIF/INF/3. 

=== Page 7 ===

WT/GC/W/773 
 
- 7 - 
 
  
2.3.2  Improving the Efficiency of WTO Subsidiary Bodies 
2.29.  Issue and Problem. The potentials and functions of the subsidiary bodies of the WTO have 
not been fully tapped. Some issues on the agenda of the regular meetings have not been resolved 
despite prolonged discussions for years. There is considerable room for improving the operational 
efficiency of the subsidiary bodies. 
2.30.  Objective and Task. It is important to elevate WTO's role in global economic governance. 
In this regard, its subsidiary bodies and the Secretariat should find ways to better respond to the 
interests and needs of Members. 
2.31.  Action and Proposal. Viable options should be explored to improve the efficiency of the WTO 
in the following areas, among others: First, improve the rules of procedures of the subsidiary bodies. 
Second, adjust the frequency of regular meetings in light of the specific situation of each body. Third, 
encourage t he Secretariat to conduct more research on important economic and trade issues , 
enhance cooperation with other interna tional organizations, and help developing Members address 
and resolve specific trade concerns at regular meetings. Fourth, further improve the representation 
of developing Members in the Secretariat and steadily increase their share in the staff. 
2.4  STRENGTHENING THE INCLUSIVENESS OF THE MULTILATERAL TRADING SYSTEM 
2.4.1  Respecting the Right of Special and Differential Treatment of Developing Members  
2.32.  Issue and Problem. Development issue is at the centre of WTO work. The WTO agreements 
have set forth special and differential treatment (S&D) provisions for developing Members. However, 
most of these provisions are best-endeavour clauses in nature and their implementation leaves much 
to be desired. Furthermore, some Members are challenging the entitlement of developing Members 
to S&D, disregarding the systemic gaps between developing and developed Members. They even 
request some developing Members to assume the same obligations as those of developed Members. 
2.33.  Objective and Task. Development remains an important theme of the times. It is crucial for 
the WTO to safeguard the rights of developing Members to S&D and make S&D provisions more 
precise, effective and operational. This will be conducive to  reducing development deficit in trade 
rules and contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals  of the United 
Nations 2030 Agenda. 
2.34.  Action and Proposal. China, together with some other WTO Members, has submitted joint 
proposal8 on S&D and calls for continued preservation of the rights of developing Members to S&D. 
China further proposes the following: First, enhance the implementation and monitoring of existing 
S&D provisions, particular ly the implementation of Duty -Free and Quota -Free treatment and the 
Preferential Treatment to Services and Service Suppliers of the LDCs. Second, provide more targeted 
and concrete technical assistance to ensure the integration of developing Members into the 
multilateral trading system  and global value chains . Third, advance  the negotiations on S&D 
provisions in accordance with the Doha Ministerial Declaration. Fourth, accord adequate and effective 
S&D treatment to developing Members in future negotiations on trade and investment rules. Fifth, 
encourage developing Members to actively  assume obligations commensurate with their level of 
development and economic capability. 
2.4.2  Adhering to the Principle of Fair Competition in Trade and Investment 
2.35.  Issue and Problem . State-owned-enterprises (SOEs) engaged in commercial competition 
are equal players in the market as other types of enterprises. However, some Members have come 
to set differentiated rules on the basis of ownership of enterprises. For example, they label 
indiscriminately all SOEs as 'public bodies' within the meaning of the Agreement of Subsidies and 
Countervailing Measures, set forth additional transparency requirements and disciplines for SOEs, 
and discriminate against SOEs in foreign investment security review. Such practices are detrimental 
to creating an institutional framework for fair competition and, if left unchecked, would give rise to 
more discriminatory rules in the future. 
                                                
8 See WT/GC/W/765/Rev.2. 

=== Page 8 ===

WT/GC/W/773 
 
- 8 - 
 
  
2.36.  Objective and Task. It is imperative to respect the diversity of development models among 
Members and promote fair competition in the fields of trade and investment.  Such efforts w ould 
strengthen the inclusiveness of the multilateral trading system. 
2.37.  Action and Proposal. Actions sh all be taken in the WTO to uphold the principle of fair 
competition, so as to ensure that enterprises of different ownerships operate in an environment of 
fair competition. China proposes the following: First,  during discussions on subsidy disciplines, no 
special or discriminatory disciplines should be instituted on SOEs in the name  of WTO reform. 
Second, foreign investment security reviews shall be conducte d in an impartial manner and follow 
such principles as transparency and due process. Non-discriminatory treatment shall be given to like 
investment by enterprises with different ownership structures. 
 
__________ 